I want to go to Tel Aviv now we've been
reporting that there's been another
barrage of rockets fired at Tel Aviv
from Gaza alzer's Imran Khan is there
alive so Imran clearly Hamas has not
lost completely its ability to fire
Rockets what can you tell
us well I can tell you that Sirens have
been going on off in the southern
communities just outside of the Gaza
Strip uh throughout the morning about 2
hours ago we heard a very large
explosion in the background we're
hearing that at least one rocket was
fired over borian International Airport
just outside of Tel Aviv that was
intercepted by the Iron Dome defense
system this is a real message from uh
Hamas that on day 59 of this war they
can still reach as far as Tel Aviv in
the last 48 hours we even saw Rockets uh
reach a suburb west of Jerusalem as well
so clearly Hamas have this capability
now the Israelis are saying uh that they
have control of the north and Central
parts of Gaza but we are hearing that
rockets at least one rocket was fired
from the the north of Gaza which goes to
show you that they may not have the
control that they keep telling us that
they
have Imran if we can pivot to the latest
diplomatic move and I'm going to ask you
the same question that I will then ask
kimbery hit our White House
correspondent in Washington DC and it's
about this American delegation that has
arrived in Israel today this is the
delegation of the vice president and her
National Security adviser they're in
Israel today on your end what is the
reporting on what they're and H on on
what what they're trying to do is one
but also more importantly on your end
how Israel is likely to receive their
message well the trip is very clear um
the National Security advisor um for
Cala Harris uh is here to discuss the
the day after what the Americans want to
do is put pressure on the Israelis to
start thinking about how they conduct
this war for what happens when the
shooting War finishes now kimy hit uh my
colleague will get into the specifics of
that at the time but how is this likely
to be received in Israel well they'll
take it with a pinch of salt um Israel
knows that America is its only true
friend in the world it's the one country
it can rely on to back it up it gets uh
3.5
billion a year in military assistance
from the us alone since October 7th
that's actually gone up the Americans
are supplying them with 57,000 artillery
shells and 15,000 bombs including 2,000
bunker Buster bombs those are the kind
of things we saw used in Afghanistan and
Iraq uh against military bases so there
is a complete support militarily uh for
what um these Israelis are doing
certainly when it comes to the type of
weapons but politically speaking um the
Americans want the Israelis to change
but the Israelis have always maintained
they are going to conduct this war in
the way that they see fit Imran Khan
reporting from Tel Aviv thank you very
much let me take that conversation over
to uh Kimberly hit our White House
correspondent you're obviously standing
by in Washington DC on your end of this
delegation this is the VP sending her
National Security advisor after after
she had some pretty strong words uh you
know addressed to Israel uh what do you
think the Americans are trying to
achieve
here couple of things uh first of all as
Imran said they're trying to figure out
who's going to govern post-war Gaza and
uh what we know is that they're trying
to have a conversation with the Israelis
about a revitalized Palestinian
Authority and that is something that the
Israelis have already indicated they're
very lukewarm to and so the United
States is also exploring an option of
perhaps what an international governing
body might look like so this is the
start of what is expected to be some
very lengthy conversations and as uh
Imron mentioned it will be vice
president kamla Harris's National
Security team led by Phil Gordon uh he
was with her over the weekend as she met
with Arab leaders and now this convers
ation is continuing with the Israeli
counterparts now uh as part of this
conversation very quickly serel it have
five components and I call it the five
NOS uh the United States says that
essentially what they're hoping postwar
Gaza will look like will be uh five
principles no forc displacement for
Palestinians no reoccupation no blockade
no reduction of territory and no use of
Gaza as a platform for what the United
States calls terrorism so they do have
uh kind of a formulation of what they
want it to look like but of course uh
the Israelis have said that they have
their own ideas and trying to get those
to meld is the challenge absolutely
kimbery Hut reporting from Washington DC
thank you very much for that
Kimberly